Hi assalamualaikum warahmatullahi
wabarakatuh meet me again Deni
Handayani on the Mad glue channel in
this video we will learn how to
determine the asymptotes of rational functions
consisting of flat asymptotes, upright
asymptotes and oblique asymptotes. So that you can easily
master this material, there are several
prerequisite materials that you must master
First of all, the first is
how to factorize polynomial equations
, the second is the division of polynomials and the
third is infinite limit. Now, if you
have mastered the prerequisite material,
you can study this material. Okay,
before we learn how to determine the
asymptote of a rational function, or
first, we understand
what it is.  rational functions and what are
asymptotes we start with a rational function
first what is a rational function now a
rational function looks like this, yes it is a
ratio of two polynomial functions, yes,
like a rational number, there is a numerator,
there is a denominator like this, the only difference is that
later there will be variations.  abelnya for example
Hi fx = 2x + 1 per X min 5 this is
functional there is a numerator
and some is a denominator Ok
another example let's say fx = x squared
plus four X min 5 per two x min 4
this is also a rational function now this is the function
that will
Hi, then what is an asymptote? Well, maybe
friends, you are already familiar with the
word asymptote when you are in 10th grade when you study
exponential functions and logarithmic functions in
mathematics with specialization in class 10. You
have already learned about asymptotes.
until it is
far away until it becomes an asymptote it will
continue to approach or continue to be approached by the
curve for example
Hi Well, suppose this is the curve, yes, this is a
curve or a curved line, yes, the asymptote
is a line that is approached or
approached by this curve and is
constantly being approached, now this is the
asymptote, this is  This asymptote is
called the horizontal flat asymptote y =
k, yes, this line is this asymptote, he continues to be
approached by  h curve So if the curve
that we are extending continues to the
right and we also
extend the asymptote to the right, it will continue to
approach it, now this is called the
asymptote, another example
Hi, for example, the curve looks like this
Oh yes.
this
asymptote is called a
vertical asymptote or a vertical asymptote if the
previous one is horizontal or flat, yes,
that's the asymptote, then the third example
Hi, let's say the curve is like this,
friends, the asymptote is the asymptote, the asymptote
is here, now it's called the
oblique asymptote.
in this video, we
will learn how to determine
flat asymptotes, how to determine
vertical asymptotes and oblique asymptotes from
rational functions.
Hi, this is the question.
Is it possible that the asymptotes intersect
with the class 10 time curve. You
learn asymptotes. Maybe you often hear
that asymptotes are always  approach the curve
without  intersect cannot
intersect Now that's wrong, yes, the
asymptotes can intersect with curves
because the point is not to intersect
or not to intersect but to approach the
curve, for example, fx = x per x squared + 1,
this is a rational function, if we
graphed it, it would look like this,
my friends.  this is the graph of the curve of the
function its asymptotes It has
a flat asymptote i.e. the x axis x axis
is the line that the curve approaches to the
right and left towards the positive
infinity and towards the negative until well
here the curve He cuts hair
Hi the curve He cuts the x axis at
here DX =
Oh yeah Well this shows that the curves
with the asymptotes maybe I
intersect because the point is not to
intersect or not intersect but
continue to approach yes, another example
Hi, my friends, trigonometric functions,
look at this asymptote, it's a dotted line
Hi, here it is  the curve is the curve
Hi the curve with this asymptote intersects
infinitely many times  i the intersection
but this is an asymptote because it keeps
getting closer the closer we
get here the closer we get here is
an example of an asymptote that intersects a
curve So if someone asks
whether an asymptote might intersect
with a curve 4 the answer is yes it
might intersect Okay, let's discuss
how to determine a vertical asymptote or
the vertical asymptote of a rational function
which is a vertical asymptote is like this Yes,
as I showed at the beginning,
if for example this is this curve then the
vertical asymptote is vertical, the shape is
straight and upright like this, the
equation will be x = k
with ke being a real number  So
, logically, friends,
pay attention here, X, which is the value is only
1x = k, it can be x = 2x = 3 or X =
whatever, I think the real number for x =
k
is the value of x, the number is infinite,
for example, here y = 1 fulfills Y
= 2 fulfills also y = 3 fulfills down
also the same means for one value x the
value is it  u can't be defined it's
not defined what its value is Eh
we can't determine it so for
a rational function FX = GX What
causes it's value can't be
defined if it's a fraction, remember
it's not defined if the divisor is
zero, right? So the function y = FX GX
has a vertical asymptote  x = k if GK =
Hi so simply you look for the
cause of the denominator being zero because
that causes the value to be
indefinable but on condition that the value of k
is not also the cause of the
numerator is zero because if the
numerator is also zero then 00 is not
necessarily yes not necessarily Okay so  This is to
determine the vertical asymptote. You look for the
cause or generator of zero from
the lower denominator. Okay, here's the point. Let's
be clear. Let's try the following problem.
Determine the vertical asymptote of the function Y = X
squared minus 5 x minus 6 para x
squared min 3x Min 4, so the point was the
cause of zero  of the denominator is the
vertical asymptote before you look for the
denominator  at no we have to
simplify the denominator first y is the same as this
we factor first X squared minus
5S
six we can factor this Ken
Hi if we add up the result is negative 5
if multiplied the result is negative 6
what means negative 6 and positive
this one is not yes so X min 6  x + 1
and then we factor the bottom one as
well.
Let's look for two numbers if we
add them up the result is negative 3 if
multiplied the result is negative 4 how much is
negative 4 and positive 1 x min 4 x + 1
now we have to simplify this first,
the common factor is the same factor
between the numerator and denominator, we
discard first, now x + 1 is the same,
so we discard this first so the function
becomes y = x min 6 per X min 4 6 then
we find the cause of the motor from the
denominator from the bottom
Hi X min 4 = 0 then  SM how much x = 4 now
this is the vertical
asymptote Hi, here is the vertical asymptote then
what about x + 1 that we delete
this cause if we draw the graph it
will  n there will be a hole later why?
Because if the action is negative one, the
cause of the stain here X = negative 1 this
will cause this function to be 00,
it's an indeterminate number Okay, now we
discuss how to determine the flat asymptote or
horizontal asymptote from a rational function.
like
this it is a straight horizontal line later the
equation is y = k now if we
look here the value of Y that fulfills
only one value but the value of x that
fulfills for example x = 1 we just take
an integer x = 1 he
also fulfills x = 2 or x  = 3 it could also be
that the x value is not just
an integer, here it fulfills
all of them
Hi So then the x value that
fulfills it can approach infinitely a
lot
Hi So for the function y = FX it
has a flat asymptote y = k if  we
use the concept of infinite
limit here the FX limit for X approaches
infinity = Sis yes we use the concept of
limit here the x variable He
approaches  Infinite as I
explained just now, here's the point, let's
try an example problem. Determine the flat asymptote of the
function y = 4 x squared min 5 x minus
62s squared Min 3x minus 4na to
determine the flat asymptote we
use the concept of limit with x approaching
infinity for this function  4 x
min squared 5 x minus 6 under 2 x
min squared 3x minus 4-10 what
we have learned in the previous video
about infinite limits if ^
variables are the same, how do
you divide the coefficient by the coefficient,
yes, the highest power coefficient divided by
the highest power coefficient means
here 4 divided by 42422 then the
flat asymptote is Y = 2 conclude one
more problem
Hi Determine the flat asymptote of the function y = 6x
squared min 3x min 1/2 x power 3 min 3
x squared min 4 = will the concept of limit also
limit x approach infinity to the function  6
x squared min 3x minus one halve
x power of 3 min 3 X squared minus
4na for x limit close to infinity
see again ^  the variable at the top of the
power is smaller than the bottom
So the result is that the result must be
zero, right? Now we can find that the
equation for the flat asymptote Nyai is
y = 0 or the x axis, OK, we're wrong, we discussed the
oblique asymptote or other than the asymptote, for
example, like this
Hey, this is the curve  So this asymptote is
said to be an oblique asymptote. Now, a
rational function has an
oblique asymptote when the exponent of the
top of the numerator ^ the numerator is
greater than the ^ denominator.
m this
is the highest exponent of the
denominator has an oblique asymptote If
n is more than m If the upper exponent ^
says he is greater than the
lower exponent well this is the point you
need to note, for example, Determine the
oblique asymptote of the function y = 2x to the power of 3
min 3 per x  squared min 1, now
we share this method, as
friends have learned while defending  jar
polynomial division of polynomials, we
divide by using a headset, just use
brackets.
G2 esma3 Min.
Let's divide by x squared min 1
Hi, how to divide, just look at
the largest power of 2x to the power of three, we
divide by x square the result is like
2x, not 2x, try 2x  multiply by x
square I'm excited three then
2x multiply min 1 min 2 x Nikita subtract
two watermelons three minus 2x the power
will run out Well here there is no
x variable means zero variable ice 0
minus negative 2x that's positive 2x
negative 3 minus zero guarantee three  Now
this can no longer be divided by this
because here the rank of one is the
package of two Now this is called
the quotient
Hi and this is called the remainder of the
division eh so this form is y = 2x to the
power of 3 min 3 per x squared min 1
Hi that's the same  with
Hi what is the quotient 2x then
add the remainder 2x Min
Hai divided by x squared min 1
Hi, which one is the oblique
asymptote, the oblique asymptote is has  il for
this one, yes, so the oblique asymptote
is y = 2x, this is an oblique asymptote.
Hi here, if you have
learned about gradients here, we can
see that the gradient is two, so
it is clearly a straight line that
is sloping.
about flat asymptotes upright asymptotes and
oblique asymptotes in rational functions
for some examples Insyaallah
I will discuss in another video, yes,
assalamualaikum warahmatullahi
wabarakatuh
hi hi